In the previous lecture, we have created
the user DAO test class and we have
prepared it to use the power mock API as
well as we have imported static methods
that are available in the power mockito
class this one will start writing our
unit test for the create method in the
user DAO class by mocking out the ID
generators generate ID static method we
will see if this create method returns a
valid user ID whatever the static method
returns back we are going to stub the ID
generator and set the expectations for
the generate ID method and then see however
create method behaves go back to the
test start by changing the name of this
test from create should return a user ID back delay this line by hitting control
D start by creating a new instance for
user DAO assign this to a new local
variable by hitting control 1 assign statement
to a new local variable let's
call it DAO DAO.create is what
we are going to test a new user is the
parameter to it you need to do anything
else there control one import the user
and in here let's start subbing and
setting the expectations by calling the
mock static method available in the
mockito power mockito API say mock
static we need to pass only one
parameter to this method which is the ID
generator earlier we have told power
mockito to prepare this class for static
stubbing or static mocking now we are
really mocking out the static method
inside this class now set the
expectations by using when ID generator
dot generate ID is called dot then
return
integer you can say it one as you can
see the syntax is same as the mockito
API because we are using power mock mockito
of flavor that's why once you master
mockito it's very easy to learn power
moc the only new methods that you have
learned here is the mock static method
which mocks out the static methods from the
ID generator class and here we have set the
expectations we have already invoked to
the create method let assert assert
equalsto the create method  or even before we assert let's assign
this BO.create to a new local
variable lets call it result now let's do a
J unit assert equal expected is one and
actually is the result that is coming back
from that method so let's run this by
going to run as we still run it as
simple j unit test but j unit at
runtime as you can see everything is
green the j-unit then we ran it using
the j unit runner its delegated it to the
power mock runner and power mock runner
is what runs this mocks out the static
method and returns the one which we have
set it to and finally we are asserting
that that one is really coming back we
can also quickly verify by using the
verified statis that's it we need not pass
anything into this method simply use
this power mock will verify that the
static methods that we have set the
expectations for or we have stubbed out
is really getting called so click on the
play button here to rerun the test and
our tests are still green so it's that
simple we have prepared our test class
to use the power mockito API and then we
have used the mock static method from
the power mock and the when and then
return which is very similar to the
mockito API but it is from the power
mockito class instead of the Mockito
class and then we have used the verify
static method to make sure that our
generate ID method
is really getting called on the ID
generator.